This is the source code of SATCH a SAT solver written from scratch in C.

The main purpose of this solver is to provide a simple and clean code base
for explaining and experimenting with SAT solvers. It is simpler than the
source code of CaDiCaL and of Kissat in particular, while still featuring
most important implementation techniques needed to obtain a state-of-the-art
SAT solver (the current version still lacks preprocessing and incremental
solving though).  Thus is also serves as a gentle introduction into the code
base of CaDiCaL and Kissat.

The code allows to switch off individual and more basic features at compile
time by using different './configure' options. For instance completely
disabling clause learning can be achieved with './configure --no-learn'.
This not only gives a clean separation of features in the code but also
makes it easier to disable (through the C pre-processor) redundant not
needed code anymore if a certain feature is disabled.

For a more complete SAT solver you might want to use CaDiCaL, particularly
for incremental usage, and for fastest solving fall back to Kissat.

Run './configure && make test' to build and test the solver binary
'satch' as well as the library 'libsatch.a':

  satch         stand-alone solver binary
  satch.h       solver API similar to IPASIR
  libsatch.a    library with API in 'satch.h'

The source of the application and library consists of the following:

  satch.c       library code of the SAT solver
  stack.h       generic stack implementation (header file only)
  config.c      provides build-information generated by 'mkconfig.sh'
  main.c        application code with parser and witness printer

The rest are files used by the build process:
               
  VERSION       current version
  configure  configuration utility
  makefile.in   makefile template used by 'configure'
  makefile      generated from 'makefile.in' by 'configure'
  mkconfig.sh   generates 'config.c' to provide build information

For testing and debugging the following files are used:

  catch.[ch]    internal proof checker for testing and debugging
  testapi.c     simple separate preliminary API test suite
  tatch.sh      test suite for CNFs in 'cnfs' and building 'testapi'
  combi.sh      complete 4-fold combinatorial testing of configurations
  testapi       binary built from 'testapi.c' by 'tatch.sh'

The 'configure' script will generate 'makefile' from the template
'makefile.in'.  The default make goal 'all' first calls 'mkconfig.sh'
to generate 'config.c' to record build and version information.  Then
the object files 'config.o', 'satch.o' and 'main.o' are compiled.  The first
two are combined to form the library 'libsatch.a' which is linked against
'main.o' to produce the solver binary 'satch'.  The 'test' target will call
the shell script 'tatch.sh', which performs tests on CNFs in 'cnfs'.

See './configure -h' for build options and after building the solver
'satch -h' for run-time options of the solver (solver usage is also shown at
the top of 'main.c').  For debugging you can use './configure -g' and
optionally then at run-time also enable logging with './satch -l'.

Armin Biere
February 2021
